{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Notes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b\fs39\fsmilli19600 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Supersurface - An alternative model for life on the Earth\
A series of videos by SuperStudio from 1972\
There were a series of episodes that depicted five primary acts in human life Life, Education, Ceremony, Love and Death. This one is ceremony\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 The five stories, conceived as a sort of philosophical and anthropological reconstruction of architecture, first appeared, as texts, images and storyboard, on the pages of "Casabella" magazine in 1972 and 1973. \
\
Superstudio felt this was a new way of expanding ideas beyond architecture.
\f0\b\fs39\fsmilli19600 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 "The men who lived underground" abandon an alleged "golden age" and their environments built on order, on peaceful coexistence of old and new objects. By "coming to light", they establish a new way of living and choose "an invisible house" as their dwelling where they can perform new rituals and ceremonies, aiming to a more authentic kind of life.
\f0\b\fs39\fsmilli19600 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 Words and images work together in this and in other films by Superstudio by generating effects of vision and disorientation. Their narration capitalizes on irony, provocation, paradox. It is through this approach that a rigorous discourse upon the architecture and design discipline and their final extents is offered. \
\
 An attempt to refound the role of architecture takes place in this film, based on the idea that human beings are the only creators of their own choices: finally nomadic, they can free themselves from induced needs and behaviors, and pick their own place, everywhere on the Earth's "supersurface". \
\
\
\
Cyprien Gaillard Cities of Gold and Mirrors\
This is in Cancun (city in Mexico that was developed by Mexican gov't as tourist resort in 70s. Film shows scenes that document radical and uncanny culture clashes. Stupid college kids with Mayan ruins behind. Dolphins swimming past brutalist architecutre and a gang member performing a ritualistic dance. \
\
Res and fall of Mayan, Spanish, Mexican and American influences on site, we see and feel both the power of greed and the certainty of its eventual demise.\
\
Video makes it unclear if this is a modern ruin and abandoned by greens, or if the plant life is also a trope meant to evoke the tropical ecology of the resort.\
\
A glass and steel architecture (a symbol of a culture of corporate surveillance) implodes into a pile of dust.\
\
-showing competing cultures and their impotence in the face of the ravages of history. Very ominous feel.\
\
-Seems as though that dolphins and vines will be the only ones to survive.\
-soundtrack from 80s tv show called Mysterious Cities of Gold, which was about Spanish conquistadors\
\
\
\
\
DISCUSSION QS\
Architecture never touches great themes the themes of our lives. (DOES GRAPHIC DESIGN? CAN WEB DESIGN?)\
\
-The logic of their production and consumption avoids any real upheaval. Architecture allows no alternatve proposal since it uses those instruments which are accurately predisposed to avoid any deviation. (Is this internet like this? No? Yes? I think no because the technology is always changing and it's built around the need to communicate, not to be a physical roof over ones head)\
\
In accepting his role, the architect becomes accomplice to the machinations of the system. The avant- garde architect fills a rigidly fixed role, rather like that of the "young lover" in a play. At this point, the architect, recognizing in himself and in his work connotations of the cosmetic, environmental pollution and consolatrix afflictorum [comforter of the afflicted, comforter, solice]\
\
-design is perfect and rational. Everything withdraws into itself, synthesizing the needs of the world and clients.\
"Thus designing coincides more and more with existence: existence no longer under the protection of designed objects, but existence as design."\
\
"The times are over when utensils generated ideas and when ideas generated utensils: now ideas are utensils. It is with these new tools that life forms itself freely into cosmic consciousness."\
tools generated ideas but now ideas are tools (how does this relate to the internet and the progression of the internet)\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 The designing of a region free from the pollution of design is very similar to a design for a terrestrial para- dise . . . This is the definitive product . .. This is only one of the projects for a marvelous metamorph\
\
Journey to the realm of reason, trying to imagine a world without objects\
By imagining these alternate worlds and using architecture in a new way they see two benefits: We can foresee two directions for research: towards a better use of the human body and mind; towards the control of the environment without three-dimensional means (again, reductive processes).\
\
\
"We believe in a future of "rediscovered architecture," in a future in which architecture will regain its full power, aban- doning all ambiguity of design and appearing as the only alternative to nature"\
\
\
Architecture becomes a closed, immobile object that leads nowhere but to itself and to the use of reason}